Installation

Note: You must make sure that you have the proper version of Net-SNMP
installed, or linksysmon will not work.  As of linksysmon 1.1.4, you
must have Net-SNMP 5.2.  Once you have verified your version of
Net-SNMP, do the following:

First, make sure that you have logging turned on in your Linksys
router:

Go to http://192.168.1.1/Log.htm, and enter the admin username and
password.

Click on 'enable', and enter the IP address of your log host, or 255
if you would like to broadcast them to all hosts on the subnet.  Click
on 'Apply'.

If you wish to enable extended logging, go to
http://192.168.1.1/LogManage.htm.  If you get your external IP address
using DHCP and enable the "System Log", or you use PPPoE and enable
the "PPPoE & RAS Log", linksysmon should notice when your IP address
changes.

Next, these instructions assume that you have already installed
UCD-snmp and, if you are planning on doing dynamic DNS updates,
ez-ipupdate (http://gusnet.cx/proj/ez-ipupdate/).

Download http://woogie.net/linksysmon/linksysmon-X.Y.tar.gz

gzip -cd linksysmon-X.Y.tar.gz | tar xf -
cd linksysmon-X.Y

Next, you must make the perl module:

perl Makefile.PL
make

su to root by typing 'su' and entering the root password.

make install

Then, install the programs:

./install.sh

Edit /etc/linksysmon.conf to your liking

Note: if you already have an older version of linksysmon installed,
install.sh will not overwrite your current /etc/linksysmon.conf, but
will instead write it to /etc/linksysmon.conf-new.

If you want linksysmon to start automatically, type '/sbin/chkconfig
--add linksysmon'.  This will set linksysmon to run in levels 2, 3,
and 5.

Type '/etc/init.d/linksysmon start'.  If all goes well, you will
start seeing log entries in /var/log/linksys.log.

If you don't see log entries, here are a few things to check:

-Double check to make sure you really have the Linksys set up to log
to your host.

-Make sure that you don't have any firewall rules (ipchains or
iptables) that might be blocking the log packets.

-When all else fails, try using tcpdump or ethereal to see what
traffic is on your network.  This might give you some hint as to what
is going on.

Mike Wohlgemuth
mjw@purplefrog.com
http://woogie.net/linksysmon/
